If you want to get paid for posting on
Instagram, you're in the right place.
Because in today's episode, I'm going to
walk you through exactly how you can get
paid for posting, also known as brand
deals, also known as paid partnerships,
also known as sponsored posts, even if
you have less than 10,000 followers. And
in general, if you're someone who wants
to grow on social media, build a
personal brand, get more views and
engagement, or build a business on
Instagram or any other social media
platform, make sure to hit that
subscribe button because every single
week I put out a new episode walking you
through exactly how to do that. But
usually when we think about brand deals,
paid partnerships, sponsorships, which
by the way, for the rest of this
episode, I'm just going to use the term
brand deals and it will refer to all of
the above. When we think about these
terms, usually what comes to mind first
is influencers, people who have millions
of followers and whose full-time income
is generated through sponsors, brands,
corporations paying them to post about
their products. And if that's you or
something that you want to get into,
then today's episode will definitely be
helpful for you. But I want to propose
an alternative method, the method that I
use or the approach that I have for
brand deals on my own Instagram. I am a
business owner first and foremost. I
have built an audience of over 800,000
followers in order to grow my own
personal brand and my own personal
business. But what's come along with
that, of course, is a lot of attention,
a lot of eyeballs. I get over 15 million
views every single month. And so, often
times brands recognize that, "Hey, this
guy's getting a lot of views. He's got a
lot of followers. And so, we want to get
our brand, our product, our service,
whatever, in front of his targeted
followers." And so, I've brand deals as
another stream of income to my social
media. I believe I did my first official
paid partnership sometime around 2020
and I've continued to do brand deals
ever since because number one, the extra
stream of income is absolutely nice. I'm
not going to deny it. Number two, there
are a lot of great products, softwares,
and services out there that my audience
would really benefit from knowing about.
And so, I can basically now get paid for
recommending these things to my
audience. Number three, and not to get
too far ahead of ourselves, but these
things are actually beneficial to my
audience. I don't partner with any
brands or products or softwares that I
haven't personally used or benefited
from or that I know that my audience
couldn't benefit from themselves. And
then the fourth and final reason that
I'm a big fan of brand partnerships,
even if you're someone who doesn't
consider themselves an influencer and
who really wants to build a personal
brand or a business on Instagram, is
that it's kind of like stealing someone
else's credibility. If I partner with a
major company like, let's say, Adobe or
Metro Cool or some major corporation, I
now have their stamp of approval. And so
other brands would like to partner with
me because they see that this other
brand is partnering with me and people
are more likely to follow me because,
hey, if Target or Sony or whoever big
company that they know and that they've
trusted and that they've shopped at for
years partnered with me, well, then,
hey, if I'm good enough for that
company, I'm probably good enough for
their follow as well. Now, with all of
that being said, I have bad news for
those of you with more than 100,000
followers, more than 500,000 followers,
more than a million followers.
This is arguably the worst time for you
to get brand deals so far in the history
of social media. And I say that not to
scare you, but because number one, the
algorithms have changed. According to
Adam Mosseri, follower counts matter
less than view and like counts. He's
talking about that from an algorithmic
perspective, but also brands have
started to recognize this as well. In
2016, brands only looked at and only
cared about how many followers do you
have. That was basically all it took to
get brand deals and get paid. If you had
less than 10K, less than 100K, forget
about it. If you had a million
followers, you were going to get paid.
But now, the brands have wisened up and
they recognize that followers aren't
everything. And so this is great news
for those of you with less than 100K,
less than 10K, even less than 1,000
followers, you can get paid for posting
on Instagram. Basically, what matters
less is the quantity of followers you
have and what instead matters more is
the quality of potential buyers that you
have following you. Nowadays, most
brands who are looking to sponsor people
care way more about conversions than
just overall reach. Cool, you can get a
million views, but how many of those
people are actually going to convert
into customers? Similarly, brands care
way more about audience trust than
vanity metrics. It's awesome that you
got 10,000 likes on that one post. It's
awesome that you get a ton of views on
every reel, but does your audience
actually trust you? Are they willing to
buy based off your recommendations? And
number three, big brands are smart.
They've looked at the data and what
they've learned is that people with less
than 100K followers usually have a
significantly higher conversion rate
than people with more than 100K
followers. So, from a brand's
perspective, they could pay Kim
Kardashian a couple million dollars to
post a story, or they could pay a couple
thousand nano or micro influencers who
are actually going to have a
significantly higher conversion rate.
They might not reach as many people with
that one story as Kim K, but the people
they do reach are way more likely to
buy. Like I said, I've been doing paid
brand partnerships since 2020. I was
doing unpaid, also known as gifted,
brand partnerships as early as 2017, and
I've been on all sides of the equation.
I've been on the creator side where
brands are paying me. I've been on the
brand side where us as the InstaClubHub,
we have paid creators. I've been on the
advisor side where I've worked with
brands as an independent third party to
help them vet influencers and pick which
creators are best to promote their
brand. I've also done brand partnerships
on pretty much every channel, YouTube,
Instagram, Facebook, email, Tik Tok, all
of the above. And at one point in 2024,
I was even doing multiple brand deals
every single week on my Instagram, which
led me to my first ever six-figure year
in just brand deals alone. So, yes, if
you take it seriously, it can absolutely
be a pretty substantial stream of
income. But, step number one out of my
eight steps to getting brand deals, even
if you have less than 10,000 followers,
is that you need to stop positioning
yourself as an influencer. Like I've
already said, brands aren't looking for
influencers. They aren't looking for
people who post about 75 different
topics and have a ginormous following.
Instead, they want people who have a
targeted following. They want people who
have possibly less followers, but whose
followers all fit into one demographic
or they all fit into one buyer category.
So, instead of considering yourself an
influencer, position yourself as a
content creator who focuses on one
specific area. Position yourself as a
niche educator as I have, someone who
educates and creates informational
tutorials, contents, tips, and
strategies about growing on Instagram.
By the way, don't forget to subscribe. I
know I already said it, but I'm going to
say it again because I always get in
trouble for not saying it enough.
Position yourself as a community leader,
someone who is posting inspirational or
motivational content that all relates to
the same topic so that people can all
relate and connect over that shared
experience or challenge or upcoming
difficulty that they're going to have.
If you need help niching down, I did an
entire masterclass here on YouTube a few
weeks ago walking you through the steps
of niching down as well as the pros and
cons of doing so and even answering the
question as to whether or not it's still
necessary in 2026. Now, I think I might
have spoiled my answer to that question
a little bit already, but like I've
already said, brands care a lot less
about the quantity of followers and way
more about the quality or the type of
followers that you have. So, step number
one is to attract those targeted
followers to your Instagram account by
consistently posting about one topic
over and over and over again. Step
number two is to build what I'm going to
call brand deal readiness. And you don't
have to reach a certain number of
followers before starting this. Even
when you have 34 followers, you can
start building your brand deal
readiness. And let me explain what I
mean by that. Number one, you need to
make sure that your profile is set up to
create a great first impression for
these brands when they are searching,
reviewing, and finding your account.
That includes having a username that is
either your personal name, your business
name, or even including some keywords in
your username that relate to your niche.
Number two, arguably the most important
line of your entire profile is your
Instagram name line, and this should not
just be a repeat of your business name
or your personal name. This should
instead include searchable keywords, so
that brands can find you. When I worked
with an Upstate New York glamping resort
to find influencers to promote them, one
of the main ways that we searched for
and found these influencers was by
searching Upstate New York influencer,
Upstate New York travel, New York City
travel guide, all of these different
terms, and there was probably some great
influencers out there who we completely
missed because they didn't have these
searchable keywords and phrases in their
Instagram name. So, definitely make sure
to include these sorts of keyword
SEO-friendly words and phrases in your
Instagram name section of your bio.
Speaking of your bio, your bio should be
clear and concise. It shouldn't be
redundant. It shouldn't be lengthy. It
shouldn't include clichés. It should
clearly tell me what you're going to be
posting about and whom you are trying to
attract or whom you are going to be
serving and helping with your Instagram
account. In order to make that great
first impression and increase the
likelihood that you actually land the
brand deal, you also want to have three
pinned posts on your Instagram. The
first one should be kind of like a start
here or an about me, giving background
into who you are and what people can
expect from following you. The second
one should be a great example of your
content. Not necessarily the one that's
going to get the most views, but
essentially you want something that is a
great demonstration of the quality of
content or the type of content that you
really excel at making. And then the
third pinned post can vary. It could be
an example of a past partnership. It
could be an example of a post that you
made to promote your own business. It
could be a quick win that your followers
can experience before even leaving the
post. Basically, something of value for
that third pinned post. Additionally, in
order to make a great first impression,
you want to have a consistent visual
style and content rhythm. What I don't
mean by this is that everything has to
match aesthetically. I don't need every
single post to have like the same pretty
pink filter and pink font and cursive
writing on it. But what I do want to see
if I'm playing the role of the brand is
somewhat of a predictable visual style
or somewhat of a predictable appearance
for your content. If every single post
looks like a hodgepodge and it doesn't
really fit together and you got like one
really blurry video and then one really
highly produced video and then you got
one meme and you got one screenshot, I
don't know what I'm going to get if I
partner with you and I don't want to end
up with one of these low-quality or
random off-brand videos. I want to make
sure that I can predict what kind of
video or what kind of post I'm going to
get if I partner with you. For the last
few years, I've been using Notion to
basically organize my entire life. It's
so much more than just a to-do list app.
It's truly a one-stop shop for
organizing any area of your life or
business. And it's not just great at
organization, it's also great at
automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now, for
the first time, they're introducing
Notion AI Agents. The new Notion custom
agents will allow you to automatically
perform advanced tasks without you even
having to lift a finger. For example, I
built a Notion custom agent that
automatically pulls the link to any reel
that I've posted and then it pulls out
the text that I say or the text on the
screen in the first few seconds of the
reel. Basically, it pulls out my hook.
And then it's able to look at how that
post performed and compare it to the
hook, which allows me to see which hooks
are actually working so that I can reuse
them and tweak them for future reels.
Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built-in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools and more time creating great work.
Now, with Notion's custom agents, busy
work that used to take hours or, let's
be honest, didn't really get done at
all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between
between agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but custom agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But, don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest growing
companies in the world like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try custom
agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase notion n o t i o n
.com/byt.
To try custom agents today and when you
use my link, you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/byt.
It also needs to be clear that there is
a consistent intended audience for your
posts. If one of your posts is a date
night selfie and then another one is
three tips for losing weight after your
third child and then another one is
about peptides and then another one is
like a meal, a recipe and then another
one is like your kid on his first day of
school and then another one is how to
carve your pumpkins. I as the brand am
not going to want to work with you
because there isn't a clear audience for
all of your posts. Now, I do want to
note that even though I said view counts
matter and engagement matters, brands,
at least the smart brands, they don't
expect that every single one of your
posts has super high or even super
consistent engagement. In fact, that can
actually be a little bit of a red flag
if they're too consistent. Like if every
single one of your last 40 posts has
about 1,200 likes and about 13 comments,
as a brand, I'm going to question, how
has there been no variance? How have
there been no outliers? No posts that
have outperformed or underperformed? How
are you getting almost the exact same
numbers on every single post? That's
usually a red flag that people are
buying their likes or engagement, which
of course you should not be doing. It's
actually illegal in some countries to
purchase views and likes and followers
and then turn around and use those
purchased engagement as a metric to get
paid more for brand deals. So,
definitely do not do that. But, I'd say
all this to say, it's okay if you have
some posts that do really well and some
posts that don't do well. As a brand, I
just want to to sure that there are some
posts that are performing well. If every
single one of your posts is not
performing well, if every single one of
your posts has super low views, super
low engagement, super low likes, then
I'm going to be concerned that when you
post about my brand, it's not going to
get very much engagement and it's not
going to reach very many potential
customers. Even if it converts 100% of
the customers, if your post only got 17
views, that's not going to be very many
customers generated from that post. So,
if you're watching this right now and
you don't have a lot of followers and
you also don't have a lot of views,
likes, and engagement on any of your
posts, then definitely hit subscribe and
definitely go back after this episode
and watch some of the past episodes that
I've done about getting more views,
getting more engagement, better hooks,
better carousel ideas, reel ideas. I
post an episode every single week, so
there's plenty of episodes that you
could go back and binge watch about
increasing your engagement on Instagram.
Because again, while you don't need a
million followers, you got to have
something. You got to have some
engagement, some views, and some
followers. I do want to note the
exception of this, which is something
that we're not focusing on today, which
is UGC or user-generated content. That
is a style of brand promotion or brand
partnership where it doesn't matter how
many followers you have because brands
are not paying for your audience's
attention, they're not paying for you to
post the post on your own account,
they're paying for simply your creative
skills. They're paying for you to make a
video for them and then they're going to
use it in their own ads or on their own
social media. You don't have to have any
followers for that. Instead, and not to
go too far off on a side tangent, what
you need for that is a great portfolio
of great content that you made in the
past. Now, usually if you're somebody
who's making great content and you're
posting that great content, you're going
to grow your following, so it's not very
common that someone makes really great
videos, really great UGC content and
brands would want to partner with them,
but they don't ever post that content,
so they don't have any followers. That's
pretty rare, but if you're someone who
does fit that exception, if you are
someone who just you know you make
really great videos, but maybe you don't
post them on your own Instagram cuz
you're scared to, or maybe you don't
post them online because, you know, you
have family and friends and you're
worried about what they're going to say,
or maybe you do post them online, but
you just haven't popped off yet. You
haven't really grown yet, then you could
consider UGC as an alternative to brand
deals. But, enough about that UGC
sidebar, let's get back into the steps.
Step number three for getting paid for
posting even with less than 10,000
followers is that you need to monetize
before the brands will start paying you.
As I've said numerous times, brands are
smart. It ain't 2016 where they just
look at, "Oh, she's got a million
followers. Let's pay her a bunch of
money." They want to know if you can
convert. They want proof. They want
screenshots. They want data. So, here
are some ways that you can monetize your
Instagram so that you have data for the
future. Number one is what I started
with, which is affiliate links.
Affiliate links is basically where you
promote someone's business or product,
and then when your followers buy using
your discount code or your special
affiliate link, you get credit. The true
story about my first affiliate venture
was actually with reusable water
bottles. It was before Hydro Flask was
super popular, which this is a Hydro
Flask, by the way. Not a paid
partnership, but one of my buddies had
his own reusable water bottle company
called Sipwell Nest, and there was like
a good mission behind it. There was like
20% of every purchase went to building
wells in Africa, and so I would promote
these water bottles all the time. They
were the reusable water bottles that I
used, and whenever my audience purchased
them, I would get 20% in referral
commission. And I was promoting these
way back in the day before I even had an
Instagram when I was just posting on
Snapchat stories, and from that I made a
few hundred, if not maybe even a few
thousand sales, and that was proof of
concept, right? So, if I then went to
Hydro Flask, and I was like, "Hey Hydro
Flask, I want you to sponsor my Snapchat
stories. Here's the proof of what I've
done for a similar brand. I could do
something for you." And now I have
leverage. Now I have past proof in in to
negotiate that deal. I can almost
guarantee you that every single product
that you use on a daily basis has some
sort of affiliate. The easiest way to
find it and get signed up is usually
just by going to Google, Googling the
name of the product plus the word
affiliate, and then usually they will
have some sort of easy setup flow where
you maybe just put in your PayPal email
address, sign up with a username and
password, and you're done. Now, if you
just can't find an affiliate program for
that product, there's also an Amazon
storefront or Amazon Associate or Amazon
Affiliate. They change names all the
time, but essentially every product on
the planet is available on Amazon, and
you can set it up so that when people
purchase through your Amazon link, you
get credit. The upside of this is number
one, everything is on Amazon, and number
two, you actually will get credit for
everything that's in their cart. So, if
all that they are actually doing is
using your Amazon affiliate link to
purchase a Hydro Flask, but they have a
bunch of other stuff in their Amazon
cart at the time, you will get credit
for everything in their cart. The
downside of Amazon Associate is that it
usually pays a much lower fee compared
to direct affiliate programs. Like in
that example I gave earlier, the Sip
Wellness affiliate paid me 20%, whereas
if I was to sell a Hydro Flask on
Amazon, the affiliate percentage would
probably be like 1 or 2%. This is some
of the best data for brands because it
is proof that you have taken someone
else's brand, promoted it on your
Instagram, and your followers have
purchased it. Now, you could also use
your own data, let's say if you have
your own business, your own products or
services, but there is a little bit of
an asterisk on those because you are
selling something that you created, and
so it's just a little bit different than
selling someone else's product or
service. But as you're doing this, I
want you to track the data. When you
make these posts about the affiliate
product, track how many views you're
getting, track how many link clicks
you're getting, track how many sales
you're making, track how many people are
responding with the keyword in ManyChat,
and then how many people are actually
clicking through and visiting the link.
The more specific and detailed your
data, the better. I generated 42 sales
from this one reel. This one Instagram
story got 827 views, and from that I
generated 37 link clicks, and 14 of
those 37 people ended up purchasing the
product. That sort of data will put you
light years ahead of every other creator
who is at your size and also looking for
brand deals. Something that I think is
overrated and a little bit outdated is
having a pitch deck because often times
they're super lengthy and brands just
kind of flip through them and they don't
actually look at them. It's kind of like
having a really pretty resume when most
people are just kind of skimming your
resume, but if you are going to collect
some data, step number is to focus on
the right metrics. Again, rather than
focusing on the number of followers you
have, here are some stats that you
should focus on and compile a list of so
that you can have these in your back
pocket when we actually start pitching
brands. Number one, if you use DM
automation, the average story replies
per promotional story. Or if you don't
use DM automation and you still rely on
the link sticker, you could include a
average link clicks per promotional
Instagram story. Number two is actual
conversion screen shots. If you use
ManyChat, it's very easy to see this
data because ManyChat will tell you how
many people clicked and then if you
hover your mouse over it, it will tell
you the percentage of people who
clicked. And then I also find it's
helpful to track total sales numbers and
this is again is something that's much
easier if you have like a direct
affiliate portal. So again, if I was
selling something that was like the Sip
Wellness water bottles, sure I could see
that I made 827 dollars this month from
promoting them, but the brand cares a
lot more that I sold 217 units and I
generated X revenue for the company. 217
times maybe the bottles are 20 bucks,
that would tell me the total revenue
that I generated for the company. I'm
sure you've heard the term work smarter,
not harder. Well, step number five is to
pitch smarter, not harder. The
recommendation that I am not going to
give you is to email 100 brands every
single day for the next year. Of course,
there is a certain amount of volume that
is at play here and of course, if you do
email more brands, you're likely to get
more responses. You'll get a lot of
no's, but maybe you'll get a few yes's,
but that's not the best method and I
don't think that's the best use of your
time. Instead of us sending out a
massive quantity of I love your brand,
let's partner, let's collaborate, let's
work together emails, here's what you
should do. Number one, make a list of
brands that you already use and love.
Think about the softwares that you're
constantly interacting with, the
products, the services, the gadgets, the
gizmos, the things that you're always
buying and the things that you're always
recommending to your friends and family
or always recommending already on your
Instagram stories and to the people who
follow you. Oh, you got to check out
this cleaning supply. You got to check
out this thing at Target. You got to buy
this for your next road trip. Whatever
those sorts of products are, start
there. Then, number two, do a little bit
of digging to find the right person to
reach out to. Usually, if you go to
these companies' websites or if you
Google brand partnerships or community
partnerships or paid partnerships,
again, use all the different synonyms
and the name of the company, you might
find the actual email address of the
right person to reach out to. If you do
all the digging, you use ChatGPT, you do
all the research and you can't quite
find an email address, you can also go
directly to LinkedIn or Instagram, go to
the products page, and then see if they
have a social media manager, see if they
have someone who runs their accounts, or
at a bare minimum, you can DM the
accounts directly on those social
networks. That is usually going to have
the lowest response rate, but at a
certain point, you're going to have to
just do what you got to do. As someone
who cooks about 95% of their meals at
home, and no, that's not an
exaggeration, usually the only meal that
T and I eat out is our sushi Saturday.
What we eat, what we prepare, it matters
a lot to us. And that's why I'm so
excited to introduce you to our newest
sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh allows
you to choose between more than 100
recipes every single week, including
cuisines from all around the world and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are high
protein recipes, which fires me up and
it allows me to feel great because I
know that I'm eating wholesome
ingredients like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes
and let me tell you it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a free
Zwilling
knife which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. But then step number three of
pitching smarter is to send them a
specific content idea. Not I love your
brand, let's partner together, but give
them a specific pitch. Tell them your
idea. Tell them how you want to promote
them. Tell them what would be in the
campaign, what the video or the post
would look like. Give them specific
angles and specific deliverables. I plan
on posting three Instagram stories over
a one-week period. I want to post one
Instagram reel and one dedicated YouTube
video. Also, in that pitch, include an
audience breakdown. Not here's how many
followers I have, but I have this kind
of follower. My average engagement rate
is this high. My target audience is
this. I estimate that 78% of my audience
is a perfect fit for your product. And
this is also where you can include the
data that we talked about earlier. Here
are my conversion rates. Here's my
average link clicks per Instagram story.
Here's a campaign that I did in the past
with an affiliate link and how similar
it would work to your brand. Now, I know
that sounds like a lot and it could be,
but I want you to try to make it as
concise as possible. Do not write a
17-paragraph email. Try to keep it to
two to three paragraphs maximum so that
can open the conversation, right?
Basically, you want to look appealing as
concisely as you possibly can. You want
to make your argument and you you to
stand out in a relatively short window,
because oftentimes the person who is
running brand partnerships, that's not
their sole responsibility. Maybe for
Target, there's like an entire team
dedicated to this, but for most brands
and businesses, it's someone in the
media department, or it's the social
media manager who also runs brand
partnerships. It's someone who's wearing
multiple hats, just like you probably
are. And so, don't overwhelm them with a
super long email. Keep it short, keep it
concise, but make sure to deliver how
you uniquely have value in that email.
And then what I usually find best,
instead of saying, "What's your rates?"
or "Let's partner." or just like
stamping something right there where
they have to respond yes or no, I think
it's more beneficial to invite them to
hop on a call. Maybe just a 15-minute
discussion, maybe you're going to hop on
Zoom, and you're just going to talk
about what this could potentially look
like. That way you'll get more
responses, and people will be more open
to exploring it, even if they're leaning
towards saying no. Step number six in
this process is to offer what brands
actually want. So, whether it's in that
initial reach out, or it's in your
conversation via Zoom or any follow-up
emails, here are six things that brands
are looking for more than just total
number of followers. Number one, brands
love short-form content that they can
use as UGC content. I briefly talked
about this earlier, but again, you're
creating a video that then they can use.
So, if you can tack that on to your
brand partnership, "Hey, Target, I will
post this Instagram Reel for you, but
then you can use this Reel on your own
social media." That is a huge win for
them, because then they can turn into an
ad, they can boost it. They just
basically have more content. Two birds
with one stone situation. Number two,
brands love raw assets, because yes,
they're hiring you for your creativity,
your skill set, your editing, your
vision, but sometimes it's nice as a
brand to have the raw content, the
actual like unedited video files, so
that they can then chop them up and
reuse them in their own style in the
future. Number three, brands love
already tested, if not already proven,
concepts or hooks or video styles. So,
if you can say to a brand, "Hey, I
partnered with this similar brand in the
past or I did an affiliate promotion for
this similar product in the past and I
used this hook or I did this video style
and it performed really well and now I
want to just slightly tweak it to fit
your brand." That is going to appeal to
them so much more than just an idea
that's fresh out of your mind. Number
four, brands love exact scripts. Now, I
don't know about you, but I'm not
someone who loves scripting every word
of my content. I rarely do so. The
exception is when I'm partnering with a
brand. When I'm partnering with a brand,
I will write out an entire script that
includes a shot list, that includes
angles, that includes music and sound
effects. Basically, I will detail the
entire vision of the post prior to
making it. That way the brand can sign
off, they can edit, they can make their
adjustments before I even hit record,
which they love because they now have
more control. But, I actually like that
as well because it's a lot easier to
record something different based off an
edit to a script than it is to edit a
video and change the words you said
after you already recorded. It's a pain
in the ass when I'm like, "Hey brand,
here's the script." And then they're
like, "Good to go." And then I film it.
And then a few weeks later, they're
like, "Actually, you said these words
this way." And I'm like, "Yeah, I said
them this way because that's what it
says in the script." And they're like,
"Actually, can you say it this way?" And
now I have to like go back and
re-record. Maybe I have to get another
haircut so my hair is the same length
and I'm wearing the same t-shirt the
same time. It's a headache. So, script
things out. The fifth thing that brands
love is repurposing rights. Now, this is
similar to UGC. The slight difference
here is that usually this is just
allowing them to collaborate on the post
or promote the post onto their own
Instagram stories, sharing the post onto
their own Instagram stories, that sort
of thing. It's not always included and
it's good to just communicate these
things. And then the sixth thing that
brands love is minimums or guarantees.
This isn't something that I necessarily
do with every brand that I work with,
but especially those brands who have
very clear goals. They want to hit 200
conversions from my post or they want my
post to have a total reach of 100,000
people, I will set that as a guarantee.
That puts a little pressure on me to
make sure that the video does well and
performs, but it also protects the brand
so that they know if this post doesn't
reach 100k or if it doesn't get 200
conversions, then Brock as the creator
will make a second video in order to
reach that threshold. This gives the
brand a lot more peace of mind because
they know that no matter what, they're
going to hit the numbers that they want.
Whether it takes one video or four
videos to get there is up to the kind of
content that you make. Step number seven
is to actually get paid. Now, how much
should you charge? What should your
rates be? I'm sure you've heard this a
million times, but there is no universal
number. There are so many different
variables at play and I've come up with
a little bit of an equation. It is
actually quite a complex equation. So,
stick with me for a second, but if you
can fill out this equation, it should
hopefully give you a pretty good rate
that you can then judge, "Hey, does this
feel right?" Ultimately, a lot of it
will come back to feel. If you get to a
rate at the end of this equation and
you're like, "Whoa, that's way high."
You need to ask yourself, "Does that
feel way high because I just set my
expectations low?" Or does that feel way
high because it's just not an accurate
representation of the kind of content I
can make? Similarly, ask yourself the
same questions if the rate feels really
low. If that's something where it's
like, "Hey, you know, 50 bucks? Really?
I I it's just not worth my time." Okay,
well then maybe you're going to raise
the rates. Ultimately, there's always
got to be some nuance and some feelings
involved, but let's look at this
equation and I'll break it down for you.
The equation to determine your cost per
reel is V * ER * CV / 1,000 and then you
multiply all of that by UX and you add
B. Now, I know this is this feels like
algebra. I know we're going back to, you
know, middle school high school algebra
two, but let me break down what these
different variables mean because it's
actually not that complex. V is your
average views per reel. I do not want
you to look at any reel that you've
posted in the last 30 days because
oftentimes reels can pick up steam even
a month or so later. So, I want you to
look at reels that you have posted at
least 30 days ago up to 90 days ago.
That'll give you a good 2-month window
where you can look at how are your reels
actually performing. How many views on
average is each of my posts getting? ER
stands for engagement rate. An
engagement rate is another equation
within an equation where it's
essentially the total amount of
engagement that you are getting per post
divided by the number of views that you
got on that post. So, simple numbers.
Let's say you got 17 likes, three
comments, and five saves. You add that
up, that's 25. Let's say on that post
you got 100 views, then 25 pieces of
engagement divided by 100 views, that
would be a 25% which would be extremely
high, 25% engagement rate. And when
you're plugging this number into the
equation, of course, you have to plug it
in as a percentage. So, 25% would be
.25. CV is your conversion value
multiplier. Now, this isn't an exact
number. You can't just take your
conversion rate and plug it in here, but
basically, I want you to give yourself a
grade on a scale from 0 to 150, where 0
is I literally can't get anyone to buy
anything from me when I post about any
sort of product or service or whatever,
there's crickets, and 150 being if I
just say the word of a product, I'm
getting hundreds of messages asking me
what it is and where do I buy it. If you
give yourself a score of 20 to 40,
you're someone who maybe gets a couple
conversions, maybe a couple people buy
from you, but it's really like pulling
teeth. If you give yourself a score from
40 to 75, you're someone who can make
sales, but it's not the easiest thing.
You get some conversions, but
ultimately, it's not your strength. If
you give yourself a score from 75 to
100, then you're good at making sales.
When you make a promotional post, you
are going to get conversions. It might
not always be gangbusters, it might not
always go viral and get a ton of
conversions, but you're going to make
sales for sure. And then if you give
yourself a score of above 100, 100 to
150, then you're someone who definitely
makes sales. Like whenever you make a
promotional post, you know it's going to
be a good day. You're going to make a
very high percentage, let's say above
10% conversion rate on your posts. And
then again, those first three variables
that we mentioned, V, which stands for
average views per reel, ER, which is
your engagement rate, and CV, which is
your conversion value multiplier, all of
those things are going to be multiplied
together and then divided by a thousand.
Stick with me here, I know we're getting
mathematical. I'll give you an example
in just a minute. But, you're going to
take all of those numbers and you're
going to multiply them by U. And U
stands for usage rights. Usage rights
isn't something that we've explicitly
talked about today, but it's basically
are you going to allow the brand to use
your content? And for usage rights, I
want you to grade yourself on a scale of
one to three. One being I'm only posting
this organically and the brand cannot
use it. 1.25 would be I'm going to post
this organically and the brand can use
it for up to one month. 1.5 would be I'm
going to post it organically and the
brand can use it for up to 90 days. Give
yourself a score of two if you're going
to post it organically and allow the
brand to use it for up to a year. And
give yourself a score of three if you're
going to post it organically and allow
the brand to use it in perpetuity,
forever. They can do whatever they want
with it. They can basically have the
content and run it to any ads or post it
however many times they want. It's
theirs. And that's something that's
totally up to you. Personally, I usually
stick to about a six-month window.
Anything after that and I worry, what if
the brand changes? What if the brand
tarnishes their reputation? What if I no
longer want to approve of and vet and
stamp my own face onto that brand? So,
for me, six months is usually good, but
that's your own personal preference
based off how long you want your name to
be tied to that brand and how long you
want the brand to have access to using
your face. The X in this equation is
what I'm going to call the X factor. And
this is something again where there's a
lot of nuance and it's going to include
your own personal opinion. For this, I
want you to grade yourself on a scale of
zero to 1.5, where zero is I am a
horrible content creator, I do not make
good posts, my reels suck, and I'm not
unique at all. Hopefully, none one you
are a zero. And 1.5 being I'm legit. I
create really good content. I have a lot
of authority within my niche. I can turn
around my content super fast. If I
partner with the brand today, I could
give them the content by tomorrow. I
want you to think about your production
quality. I want you to think about how
simple or complex the video it is that
you're going to make. All these
different little nuances are going to
play into how you grade yourself for
this variable. And then again, once you
multiply all those numbers together, you
are going to add B, and B is your base
production value. Basically, how much do
you estimate this is going to cost you?
If this is something where you're going
to have to fly to another country, and
you're going to have to film a super
high production value video, and hire a
production crew, well then your
production budget is going to need to be
quite high. If you're filming this just
on your phone in your home, then maybe
the production value is going to be a
lot lower, because the only equipment
you need is a ring light and a
microphone. And I know you might be
thinking, "Well, Brock, I I already have
a ring light and a microphone, so do I
really need to charge the brand for
that?" You might not need to charge them
100% of the cost of the microphone and
the ring light, but you should factor
that in just a little bit, because that
is part of your production budget. Sure,
you spent that money months or years
ago, but the brand is getting access to
it today, and so they should pay for it
at least to some degree. Are you ready
to take your business's marketing to the
next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one
marketing and CRM platform that's
designed to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM, reach your
audience through email and SMS, and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to improve
your strategy in real time. It's like
having a marketing expert on your team
who works 24/7. And of course, Brevo
also offers advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AI-driven
personalization. Everything that you
need to create multi-channel campaigns
that hit the mark every single time. Get
started for free today or use code tribe
50 to save 50% off their starter and
standard plans for the first 3 months of
the annual subscription. Just head to
www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. All right, I know that
was quite a lengthy scientific
mathematical equation, but let's plug in
some actual real-world numbers into
these variables and I'll give you an
example of of what we could come up with
as a fee for your cost per reel. Again,
starting with variable V, your average
views per reel, let's say that you
average 15,000 views per reel and your
average ER or engagement rate is about
3%, which numerically would be
represented as 0.03.
And then for your conversion multiplier,
you gave yourself a score of 85 because
you're pretty good at making sales, but
you're not like elite. So, you're going
to multiply those three numbers together
and then divide them by a thousand. If I
did my math correctly, this should give
you 38.25.
We're going to take that number and
multiply it by U for usage rights. For
usage rights, you gave yourself a score
of two because you plan on allowing the
brand to use your content for up to a
year, but no longer. And then we're
going to multiply that by your X-factor
score, which let's say you gave yourself
a score of 1.25 because you create some
pretty good content and you're proud of
your creative skills. When you're done
multiplying all these numbers together,
you end up with a number around 100, aka
$100. And then when you add in your
production budget, which let's say rough
estimate $150 of production value, then
you end up with a total of $250 per
reel. Now, of course, like I said, there
are so many other factors that I could
have added into this equation, but I
just figured we would start there and
then if you feel like that number is
below where it should be, go ahead and
raise it. If you feel like it's above
where it should be, go ahead and raise
it. With all this being said, I do have
a tool that I want to recommend for you
that's kind of like a Glassdoor for
brand partnerships and it's fypm.vip.
It stands for fudge you pay me.vip. And
this website will basically show you how
much are brands actually paying people.
So, you can search for individual brands
that you might want to partner with. You
can look up individual creators, and you
can see how much are these brands
actually paying. So, for example, if I'm
on fypm and I look up a brand like Nike,
I can see all of the brand deals that
Nike has recently done as long as they
have been reported to fypm. They have, I
believe, over 100,000 total brand deals
that have now been submitted and
verified. And so, you can see how much
is Nike paying creators with a million
followers. How much is Nike paying
people with 10,000 followers. What's
included? Are they getting just money?
Are they getting a pair of shoes? Did
they include usage rights for Nike? And
you can basically create a much more
fair marketplace by knowing verifiably
what other people are getting paid,
especially other people who are of your
same size and working with brands that
you want to work with. Step eight, last
but not least, you have now signed the
deal. You've made the post. You've
shared the content. Number one, even if
the brand doesn't ask for it, make sure
to send them the data. Make sure to send
them the performance insights as to how
many views you got, how many conversions
you got, and any other metrics that you
can include. And don't just leave it
there. Follow up with a let's keep
working together. Brands love being able
to work with people on three-month,
six-month, or even 12-month retainers,
and you should love it, too, because now
you know that you're not going to
constantly have to keep pitching new
brands. You're not going to have to
constantly be looking for new people to
work with and new companies to partner
with. Instead, you know that for the
next 12 months, you're going to post one
reel per month about X company. And so,
when you reach out to the brand with
this sort of longer-term deal, you can
maybe discount your rates a little bit.
Because they're signing a contract and
agreeing up front, you now have the
security and the peace of mind. And so,
maybe you're willing to offer a little
bit of a discount on your normal cost
per reel or cost per story or cost per
post because you want to sweeten the pot
for them. When you're coming up with
these long-term partnerships, I also
want you to consider things like revenue
share agreements. Oftentimes when brands
partner with you, they will start by
paying you a flat fee for one post. But,
if you know you're crushing it for that
brand, if you know that a lot of people
are converting, then you might want to
work out some sort of revenue share
where you get paid a flat fee, but then
for every single person who converts,
you make 10% of that conversion cost.
So, it's kind of like a brand deal with
an affiliate commission layered on top.
In the same way that earlier I talked
about how you could have performance
guarantees, you could also consider
performance bonuses in this long-term
contract. So, maybe you average 15,000
views per reel, but if you have a reel
that reaches more than 30,000, more than
double your average, then there's a
certain bonus that the brand will have
to pay you for that. This is also where
you could consider layering in other
social media channels. Maybe you have
less followers or less engaged followers
on TikTok or on YouTube or on your email
list, but you're going to add these into
the long-term deal for a little bit of
extra fee. But, even if your first post
for the brand performed poorly, even if
they say no, they don't want to work
with you anymore, make sure that you
express generosity and that positive
mindset. Make sure that you're very
thankful because you never know if the
brand's going to change their mind in
the future or if the person who is in
charge of communicating with you on the
brand's behalf is going to leave that
brand and start working for someone
else. And then when they work for that
other company, they're going to think,
"Oh yeah, Cheryl was really easy to work
with. She was such a kind bright light
in my day. I loved receiving emails from
her." And so, they're going to want to
partner with you from this new brand in
the future. Before I let you go, the
five biggest mistakes that I want you to
avoid are number one, forgetting to give
this video a thumbs up. I'm just
kidding, that's not one of the mistakes,
but please consider giving this video a
thumbs up. If you've watched this far,
I'm going to assume that you enjoy what
you're watching. So, hit that thumbs up,
it really helps the video a lot. But,
the actual first mistake that I want you
to avoid is waiting. Waiting till you
hit 1,000 followers. Waiting till you
hit 10K. Waiting till you hit 100K.
Shoot your shot. Send that email, send
that message, send that pitch because
you would be surprised how many brands
are actually thankful that you are
reaching out to them. It makes their job
so much easier, so hit send. Similarly,
the second mistake is waiting for them
to reach out. I should have talked about
this earlier, but that's one of the
biggest misconceptions that people have
with brand partnerships is that you
should just sit back and wait for them
to email you. You should sit back and
wait for them to find you. There are
some awesome brands out there who would
be a perfect fit for you. You would be a
perfect fit for them, but you're never
going to work with them if you're just
sitting on your thumbs waiting for them
to reach out to you, waiting for them to
discover you. The reality is there's 3.5
billion people who use Instagram every
single month. And so, while we can do
things like SEO in our Instagram profile
and we can try to get on the brand's
radar, the best way to actually get a
brand deal from any specific brand is by
reaching out to them directly. The third
mistake that creators make is accepting
too many free or gifted partnerships.
Now, I'm not anti free or gifted
partnership. I think early on,
especially, it can be helpful to accept
free product or to promote a brand in
exchange for exposure. I am not anti
that. I think that you can definitely do
work that builds your portfolio. I
definitely think that if you are
accepting free product, you could then
leverage that in the future into an
actual paid promotion with the brand.
But the mistake, the third mistake, is
never asking for payment. I know it's
scary to give people a rate. I know it's
challenging to give a fee. I know that
it's feels icky and awkward and
uncomfortable to ask for money, but
ultimately, they're a business and you
are doing business here as well. So,
eventually, you need to start asking for
actual money in return for the content
you are producing. Mistake number four
is not considering usage rights. This is
absolutely key and whether it's
something that you're going to give them
usage rights in perpetuity or you're
going to give them zero usage rights at
all, it's something that you need to be
aware of. Often times when people first
get into brand partnerships, they don't
really know what this term is. They
don't really know the value of it and
what it means. And so, when a brand's
like, "Oh, hey, by the way, can we use
your video?" You're like, "Yeah, sure,
go for it." But, you don't realize that
you just willingly signed off on them
having access to your content with full
permission and rights to do whatever
they want with it forever. And that
could put you in some really tricky, if
not downright dangerous or harmful,
situations in the future. So, before you
start reaching out to brands and
actually signing these brand deals, I
want you to consider where your line is
in terms of how much or how little you
want the brand to be able to use your
content. And then, like I've talked
about quite a bit today, one of the
biggest mistakes is just not tracking
your data and not knowing your numbers.
It's not just about followers, it's
about conversion rates, it's about
engagement rates, it's about the unique
intangibles that you can bring to the
equation. That is what matters so much
more than just the vanity metrics. And
remember, you do not need a million,
100,000, 10,000, or even 1,000 followers
in order to get paid for posting. You
need a unique value or offer that you
can bring to the table, and you need a
specific, targeted group of followers.
Don't be scared to reach out to these
brands and shoot your shot. You'll be
surprised who might say yes. Thank you
so much for listening, and as always,
happy networking.